Gather 'round!
We face off against Nekoma first today.
How did we do yesterday?
This will be our third set overall with Nekoma.
Yesterday, we played them twice, losing 25-17 and 25-19.
Simply put, we haven't taken a single set off them yet.
But if we calm down and go out there in full force,
they should be opponents we can fight on equal footing.
Hinata and Kageyama, this is your first time playing them in a while, isn't it?
Go show 'em what you've got!
Yes, sir!
Okay, we're good to go.
Give us a good serve, Fukunaga!
I'll be the first to stop that fast attack of yours.
Come on! Bring it!
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Episode Five:
"Greed"
I drank way too much with the
teachers and coaches last night.
What time is it?
Nice receive!
All right!
Damn, that's amazing.
Shake it off, Lev!
You almost had it.
Right!
Karasuno's number ten really does close his eyes when he hits that fast attack.
Give us another good serve, Tanaka!
Yes.
Cover me!
The true nature of that superhuman fast attack is the amazingly sophisticated techniques of the setter.
Center!
Two blockers!
Nice receive, Daichi!
He flew from A to C.
All right!
H-He stopped it.
And it didn't take him many tries either!
Well, Nekoma's always been pretty good at reacting to that fast attack.
On top of that, their new middle blocker is
really tall and has an amazing reaction time.
Give us a good one, Kenma!
Hey, we're gonna do more of the normal fast attacks.
The floaty ones.
Hey, are you listening?
Yeah.
Lev.
They're probably going to do a lot more normal fast attacks from here on, so please switch over to read blocking.
What's that again?
It's where you jump after seeing where the set goes.
Oh, right! Got it!
Give us a good one!
Ryuu!
Got it!
It's where you jump after seeing where the set goes.
That's one touch!
I thought Hinata had successfully faked him out there!
Even if he's one step behind, he can block really high!
We can score here!
These guys...
All right!
Damn it!
Karasuno                  Nekoma
Calm down, guys.
They already had a careful eye on our fast attacks.
For the time being, let's mainly have Azumane and Tanaka attacking from the left against Nekoma.
Yes, sir.
All right!
We've only just begun!
Is that really enough for me to say? Or am I being too spineless?
Here.
Thanks.
Here, Tsukishima.
Let's calm down and get that point.
Oh, thanks.
Can you evolve by becoming more defensive, Keishin?
Here.
Thanks.
Here you go, Azumane.
Crap...
What's going on with me?
Nekoma, Lev...
They're good. They're so good!
I have to get better, or there's no way we'll win!
Cover it!
Left!
Two blockers!
Got it!
It's up! Nice, Kageyama!
Nice save!
Got it! Let's finish this off!
Sorry! It's a bit short!
Asahi!
Spike it!
Yeah!
Huh?
H-H-Ho-Ho-Hol-Hold—
I'm sorry!
I was only looking at the ball! I'm sorry!
Are you okay? I'm sorry!
I-I'm perfectly fine...
I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!
Hey, be careful.
Shouyou's gonna be the one
who goes flying in any collision.
Make sure to look around you, idiot!
Why do you think we all call things out, dumbass?!
Right... I'm sorry.
Moron! Hinata, you moron!
Now, now. Calm down, Kageyama.
I'm sure Hinata acted completely on instinct there,
but it looked like he was trying to steal the set from the ace.
Is this time for the fledgling crow to evolve?
And will that be a blessing or a curse for his team?
No matter which, evolution will not
come to those who don't seek change.
If that is what you wish for,
even if you are the star of the court, the hero, or the ace who brings forth victory,
you need to greedily declare that you are at the top.
Hey, Kageyama.
What?
For the fast attack that goes whoosh,
I'll stop closing my eyes.
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I'll stop closing my eyes.
What?
What we're doing now isn't working.
We need a fast attack where I decide how to hit the ball.
You learned the normal fast attack because that was something you couldn't manage.
I don't know what's going on with you right now,
but if you have something to say, I'll listen to it later.
However, if you're saying you're gonna do that right now,
I won't set the ball to someone who I know will miss.
Give us a good serve!
Asahi!
Sorry! Cover it!
I couldn't really understand that conversation, but...
Got it!
Left!
I wasn't imagining the tension between Hinata and Kageyama, right?
You weren't.
I touched it! We can score here!
But it's not just those two.
Ever since Hinata and Azumane bumped
into each other, everyone's been on edge.
Yes!
Karasuno                  Nekoma
All right!
Let's go!
What we're doing now isn't working.
Hinata just blurted out what we all had realized.
Our collision was the result of a looming sense of dread.
All right! Here I go!
At this rate, Hinata and his growing greed...
I'll show you how it's done!
will eat me up.
It appears that your players have had a change in mindset.
It's true that hitting a wall is the perfect chance for
them to grow, but how am I supposed to explain that?
Gather 'round!
You guys are the weakest team here, right?
Well, he's not wrong...
If we played any of them in an official match right now,
we'd be in a world of trouble.
Do you see them as just an enemy, or do you see them as masters to absorb new techniques from?
The fact that you're weak just means that there is potential for growth.
What could be more fun than that?
Thank you, sir!
Sir!
You really sounded like a teacher with that trustworthy speech!
Thanks a lot!
I mean, I am a teacher, so...
It wouldn't hurt to at least try.
I mean, he was able to do a normal fast attack on the fly the last time we faced Nekoma.
At the time, there was a possibility the normal fast attack would work,
and I thought that was the only chance we had.
Before I knew it, we'd lost the final set against Seijou.
By the time I noticed what was going on, the ball was on the floor behind me.
Sorry about that.
He read me like a book.
It was my fault we lost,
so I hate the fact that you apologized to me.
I want to fight for myself in mid-air, right to the very end!
From our match against Seijou, I started to understand how a setter draws out 100% of the spikers' potential.
That fast attack is your best weapon.
Any slight lapse in that fast attack becomes a fatal mistake.
How you want to hit it doesn't matter.
Kageyama didn't dismiss him with an emotional outburst.
He merely stated facts.
Sorry, Hinata.
I think Kageyama is right this time.
That fast attack is amazing enough already.
Perfecting our other attacks with that at the core is probably what's best for us.
Yeah, I agree with Sugawara.
Mr. Ukai.
You say you want to fight on your own, but that deviant fast attack depends on a split-second decision.
I honestly think it's pretty hard trying to figure out what to do in that split second mid-air.
But when I'm doing well, I can see it in
slow motion, just like what Tanaka said.
There are times I can see the opponents' block real clear in mid-air, like in slow motion.
Almost like light is shining through it.
Well, there are times where you can more easily see the blocks.
In the practice match against Seijou...
That last point...
The Great King...
I could see Oikawa's face.
I could see his eyes.
Face? Eyes?
Oh, I get it. You felt like you could.
The first time I nailed that fast attack in the three-on-three,
I could see the other side.
I could see the view from the peak.
So you mean you felt like that's what you saw, right—
Oh, there you are. We're starting.
Oh, I'll be right there.
Fukurodani               Karasuno
Narita.
Yes?
Switch with Hinata for the next match.
Huh? Uh, yes, sir!
Despite what you think you want to accomplish, you need to chill out today.
I don't think that trying anything out
in the current conditions will succeed,
and I can't risk anyone getting hurt
with collisions during play like earlier.
All right!
Let's score!
Don't sweat it!
Get the next one!
Bring it!
One more on the dot!
All right!
Shrug it off!
Nice spike, Lev!
I got it!
Cover! Cover!
Give us a good serve!
Give us another good serve!
Thank you for the matches!
Thank you!
We'll see you the week after next,
at the training camp during summer vacation.
Yes, sir! We look forward to the opportunity!
That's where it really begins.
It's the last and most important long-term training camp before the spring tournament preliminaries.
Yes.
Just know that you're going to be joining me for drinks every night for a week.
Yes, sir!
Thank you very much.
I'm mentioning this a bit late,
It was my pleasure.
but looks like all your third-years stuck around too.
I'll start packing the gear into the back, so keep it coming!
Yeah.
You guys ended up going against last year's winners on the second day of the interhigh prelims, right?
Right!
I heard that from Hinata.
Yeah.
We stopped at the quarterfinals.
Tokyo's quarterfinals are amazing.
There's no point if we don't win it all.
You're right.
See you next time, Hinata.
I'll stop you then too.
I'm not gonna lose!
I may only be 163 cm tall, but I'll kick your 194-cm ass!
This training camp was really productive.
I think we found a lot of areas for improvement.
Well, we're gonna have to take them on one at a time.
Indeed.
Let's go home and carefully think about them.
Go home, huh...
Ukai?
You just reminded me that a rather annoying relative is coming home.
All right, everyone. Good work!
Thank you, sir!
So, as I mentioned, there will be inspections in the gym tomorrow, so we don't have practice.
You've all gone a long time without a day off, so please enjoy it.
Kageyama.
Set for me.
Huh?
You two aren't going home yet?
Yachi, if you don't mind, could you throw us some balls?
Huh?! Can I do that?
You just have to throw the ball above Kageyama's head.
S-Sure! I'll give it a try.
Let's do this!
Here.
He gets distracted by the ball and can't jump his highest.
One more time!
Instead of practicing an attack
we're not sure you can even do,
you should be working as much as you can on the attacks we've been using, as well as serving and blocking!
But...
if this fast attack doesn't work,
there's no point in me being on the court!
And I told you, how you want to hit
it doesn't matter for that fast attack!
I'll give you sets that won't be stopped by blocks!
But then I'll never get better!
The prelims for the spring tournament start next month!
They're right around the corner.
What do you think'll work for us?
A perfected fast attack or an absolutely useless one?!
Well?!
P-Please don't fight, guys.
Damn it!
Calm down, Kageyama.
What I'm saying is true, so why...
You too, Hinata...
Why won't he give up?!
I want to be able to fight for myself!
Your selfishness is going to destroy the team's balance!
L-Let's all...
Let's all be friends, o-okay?!
I'll set for anyone I deem essential to winning.
But right now, I don't think you are.
My feelings on the matter haven't changed.
Kageyama!
Damn it! Let go!
I won't let go until you set for me!
Do it!
Someone... Help!
Get the hell off me!
They blocked that fast attack!
Today, and when we played Seijou!
Are you blaming my sets for that?!
No, I'm not!
They were perfect! Spot-on!
But they still got blocked!
If I don't improve, it's not going to work on better opponents either!
Hey!
Cut this shit out, you two!
I-I'm just going to the bus stop over there, so here is fine.
Thanks.
I'm sorry, Yachi.
N-No, it's nothing!
It's fine... I'm totally fine.
But you're...
In my first and last tournament in junior high,
we were destroyed by Kageyama.
I vowed to get revenge, and when I got to high school, there he was.
He was even worse than I could've imagined, and we went through a lot,
but once we started playing some matches, I felt like we understood each other.
It wasn't like I'd finally made a friend.
We were partners.
Well, see ya.
Yeah...
What?
They got into a fight?
There's been tension between them ever since the training camp.
I wonder if they're gonna be okay,
considering the prelims are coming up soon.
This isn't their first fight, though, right?
Come to think of it, they were fighting even before they turned in their applications.
What? Seriously?
The first day, they knocked off the Vice Principal's toupée,
and they even got shut out of the gym by Daichi.
It sure was something.
Well, that also means they've worked past all that stuff.
Right? That's why...
I think we should just believe in them and wait.
Foot of the Slope
Thanks for shopping.
Considering he didn't look when attacking before,
asking him to start to get better is pretty pointless.
I could see the other side.
I could see the view from the peak.
Those eyes of his...
How long you're at the highest point of a jump is literally only a second.
Even if you're able to see the block,
it shouldn't be anything more than a blur.
But I've heard that every once in a while there are moments where spikers can clearly see the blockers' fingers,
or even what's behind them.
Can Hinata actually see that?
A fast attack that comes from a superhuman set...
If Hinata could decide where he
wants to hit that while in mid-air...
Nah, there's no way that's possible.
It's pointless to even think about.
But maybe...
If he could actually do it,
that duo would even surpass
the Little Giant in mid-air combat.
Welcome—
Oh, it's you, Hinata.
Coach, how exactly do I need to practice to improve?
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
Hinata and Kageyama are fighting, huh?
You can really smell the teen spirit.
I can't say the same for you, Asahi.
Huh? Then what do I smell like?
On the outside, you have the scent of an adult.
Episode Six:
"Tempo"
That's so mean!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"'Tempo.'"